RHIDP-7794 Clarify authenticating and integrating with GitHub (#1224)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/authentication/proc-enabling-authentication-with-github.adoc

[id="enabling-authentication-with-github"]

> = Enabling authentication with GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Enabling user authentication with GitHub
```

To authenticate users with GitHub, configure the GitHub authentication provider in {product}
and provision the users and groups from GitHub to the {product-short} software catalog.

.Prerequisites
* You link:{configuring-book-url}[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
* You have sufficient permissions in GitHub to create and manage a link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/overview[GitHub App].

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to authenticate with GitHub, create a GitHub App.
Opt for a GitHub App instead of an OAuth app to use fine-grained permissions and use short-lived tokens.

.. link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app[Register a GitHub App] with the following configuration:

GitHub App name::
Enter a unique name identifying your GitHub App, such as `authenticating-with-rhdh-__<GUID>__`.

Homepage URL::
Enter your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.

Authorization callback URL::
Enter your {product-short} authentication backend URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}/api/auth/github/handler/frame]`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webhook::
Uncheck "Active", as this is not needed for authentication and catalog providers. 
```
<img width="378" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/acd4c587-4c84-4582-9ee7-a945d2c5b4cb" />

Webhook::

> Uncheck "Active", as this is not needed for authentication and catalog providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clear "Active", as this is not needed for authentication and catalog providers.
```
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e81579dd-bdf3-4c57-a3fc-9c88b8b048e7)

.. Save the following values for the next step:

* **Client ID**
* **Client secret**

. To add your GitHub credentials to {product-short}, add the following key/value pairs to link:{configuring-dynamic-plugins-book-url}#provisioning-your-custom-configuration[your {product-short} secrets].
You can use these secrets in the {product-short} configuration files by using their respective environment variable name.
+
`AUTHENTICATION_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`::
Enter the saved **Client ID**.

`AUTHENTICATION_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`::
Enter the saved **Client Secret**.

`AUTHENTICATION_GITHUB_HOST_DOMAIN`::
Enter the GitHub host domain: `github.com`.

`AUTHENTICATION_GITHUB_ORGANIZATION`::
Enter your GitHub organization name, such as `__<your_github_organization_name>__`.

. Enable the GitHub organization provisioning plugin (`backstage-plugin-catalog-backend-module-github-org`).
This plugin ingests GitHub users and groups to the {product-short} software catalog.
+
.`dynamic-plugins.yaml` file fragment
[code,yaml]
----
plugins:
  - package: './dynamic-plugins/dist/backstage-plugin-catalog-backend-module-github-org'
    disabled: false
----
+

> The GitHub authentication plugin (`auth-backend-module-github-provider`) is already enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think we need to mention this, this is a core Backstage feature and cannot be disabled.

----

. To provision GitHub users and groups to the {product-short} software catalog, add the `catalog.providers.githubOrg` section to your custom {product-short} `{my-app-config-file}` configuration file:
+
--
[id=githubProviderId]
.`{my-app-config-file}` fragment with mandatory `catalog.providers.githubOrg` fields
[source,yaml]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    githubOrg:
      id: githuborg
      githubUrl: "${AUTHENTICATION_GITHUB_HOST_DOMAIN}"
      orgs: [ "${AUTHENTICATION_GITHUB_ORGANIZATION}" ]
      schedule:
        frequency:
          minutes: 30
        initialDelay:
          seconds: 15
        timeout:
          minutes: 15
----

`id`::

> Enter a stable identifier for this provider, such as `githuborg`.

Reviewer 2: Should this also say `githubOrg`?

Author: Not mandatory

> Entities from this provider will be associated with this identifier, therefore you should take care not to change it over time since that might lead to orphaned entities and/or conflicts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Entities from this provider are associated with this identifier, therefore you must take care not to change it over time since that might lead to orphaned entities and/or conflicts.
```

> [id="enabling-authentication-with-github"]

Author: ```suggestion
[id="enabling-user-authentication-with-github"]
```

= Enabling user authentication with GitHub

> To authenticate users with GitHub, configure the GitHub authentication provider in {product}
> and provision the users and groups from GitHub to the {product-short} software catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
To authenticate users with GitHub, configure the GitHub authentication provider in {product} and provision the users and groups from GitHub to the {product-short} software catalog.
```

Opt for a GitHub App instead of an OAuth app to use fine-grained permissions, gain more control over which repositories the application can access, and use short-lived tokens.

.. link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app[Register a GitHub App] with the following configuration:

GitHub App name::

> Enter a unique name identifying your GitHub App, such as `Authenticating-with-{product-very-short}-__<GUID>__`.

Author: "Auth" is creating confusing between "Authenticatin" and "Authorizing". Therefore I prefer keeping the complete word "Authenticating".

Homepage URL::
Enter your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.

Authorization callback URL::
Enter your {product-short} authentication backend URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}/api/auth/github/handler/frame]`.

> Webhook URL:: Enter your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.

Reviewer 3: Yes, I agree. I don't think it's used anywhere for authentication. It's only used when setting up the ingratiations section for Github.

Webhook secret::

> Not required.

Author: I does: step 17 in https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app. But if webhook it is not required for authentication, we can leave it out.
